---
layout: post
title: Part II
---

### Political Ideology & Education Funding

#### Overview

Over this past year, states and local governments have begun a one-a-decade process of drawing new voting district boundaries. This redistricting uses population and demographic data from the census conducted by the Census Bureau, with the most recent occurring in 2020.

Yet, redistricting has become the most pressing threat to democracy. 

Alongside a [2019 Supreme Court](https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/court-cases/rucho-v-common-cause)  ruling that
**prohibits redistricting to be challenged in federal court**, this reaffirms major threats to health, education, and social safety net policies at state and national levels, even moreso heightened midst a time of deep divisive partisanship in the United States.


#### In summary, this is major pressing challenge to education because
- Rigged maps **make elections less competitive**, severly dampening the voices and political voices of all Americans

- Both historical and current residential segregation means that **marginalized communities are the targets of pointed redistricting**; effectively creating a tool for parties to slice and dice districts in ways that discriminate against communities of color

- **Gerrymandering is getting worse.** Applying data science to work, intricate computer algorithms and sophisticated date on voter patterns have allowed political gamesmanship to "maximize" partisan benefit

<br>

### Initial Questions

As a part of a larger exploration of the **impact of educational and social safety net policies and sociodemographic characteristics at the state and school district levels on predictors of student success**. We apply the SEDA data set to provide a comprehensive picture of factors at the household, district, and state-level factors that we hypothesize influence student educational outcomes.

To prime further data analyses, the objective of this first portion is to **investigate the differences, if any, in school district expenditure between political preferences at the Congressional District level.**

#### Specifically, does spending on school districts differ by political ideology?

The analyses below highlight differences by drawing from data on per student expenditure and per teacher expenditures. This was facilitated at the Congressional District level to capture the granularities unafforded when looking at state-only levels.

### Analyses
<iframe style="border:none; width:100%; margin:0 auto; display:block;" height="500px" allowfullscreen src="https://www.embed-leaflet.com/map?center=47.606011,-122.332147&zoom=8&style=&marker=true&popup=true&title=Marker&enhancedScroll=true"></iframe>




An interactive map facilitates this comparison by grouping dominant political preferences and expenditure per student and teacher averaged over school districts in a Congressional District. 

As mentioned in class, 

> Plots of maps can be very powerful, very informative and very aesthetically pleasing visualizations.

The goal was to be able to provide a compelling story using nationally representative data. 

All in all, we hope that this work underscores the potential impact of gerrymandering on students and teachers by visualizing differences in spending in education for grades 3-8 based on the dominant political ideology in Congressional districts.


##### Findings
It is clear, that investing in students and teachers to ensure that all can access the support needed is critical for equity in education. We find that despite that the for right-leaning Districts, the magnitude in which constituent preferences are predominantly sided is much greater than for left-leaning Districts. In other words, Districts that are more left-leaning, are less radically liberal (and more neutral) than right-leaning Districts are radically conservative.

Yet, left-leaning districts invest more on average in students and teachers, with the leading Districts left-leaning. Further, follow up analyses may want to look at other outcomes, such as student teacher ratio and proportions of special education students, English language learners, special education teachers, and guidance counselors in school districts between Congressional Districts.

### What's Next?
#### Here's how you can help


